#15605 API design: Merge inherited & team queries/policies (#17227)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/REST API/rest-api.md

| Name               | Type    | In   | Description                                                                                                   |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id                 | integer | path  | **Required.** Defines what team ID to operate on                                                                            |

> | merge_inherited  | boolean | query | If `true`, will return team policies and inherited ("All teams") policies in a single list, and will not return a separate `inherited_policies` list. |

Author: ```suggestion
| merge_inherited  | boolean | query | If `true`, will return both team policies **and** inherited ("All teams") policies the `policies` list, and will not return a separate `inherited_policies` list. |
```

```json
{

>   "policy_count": 2,
>   "inherited_policy_count": 1,

Author: ```suggestion
```

| ------------------ | ------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| team_id                 | integer | path  | **Required.** Defines what team ID to operate on
| query                 | string | query | Search query keywords. Searchable fields include `name`. |

> | include_inherited     | boolean | query | If `true`, will include inherited ("All teams") policies in the count. |

Reviewer: @rachaelshaw and I had some conversations about using `merge_inherited` as the API key for the query and policy counts to keep the naming consistent with the API key for the query and policy list.

https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C01EZVBHFHU/p1713889718894049?thread_ts=1713887183.358959&cid=C01EZVBHFHU

Would love for other's input, my concern voiced with using two different keys (`include_inherited` for the counts AND `merge_inherited` for the lists) is that the API will live for a long time and it might feel confusing why it's called `merged_inherited` vs. `include_inherited` unless the context that the list API had separate inherited arrays before but now it is _merged_ vs. the count APIs only counted the team lists but now can _include_ the inherited list in the count.

@jacobshandling @mostlikelee @noahtalerman -- what do y'all think?

Reviewer 2: agree.  i vote we use the same query param on both APIs for consistency/ease.

I personally prefer `include` over `merged`, because the later almost sounds like we're merging data from 2 policies into 1.  `append` could be another option, but I think we use `include` elsewhere in our API.

Author: The problem with "include" is that the endpoint to list team policies already includes inherited policies... just in a separate list. So "merge" makes more sense there, because they're always included, you're just specifying _where_. Was thinking if we make the parameters the same, "merge" is the more flexible word for that reason.

```json
{

>   "count": 43,

Author: ```suggestion
  "count": 43
```

| order_direction | string  | query | **Requires `order_key`**. The direction of the order given the order key. Options include `asc` and `desc`. Default is `asc`. |
| team_id         | integer | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. The ID of the parent team for the queries to be listed. When omitted, returns global queries.                  |
| query           | string  | query | Search query keywords. Searchable fields include `name`.                                                                      |

> | merge_inherited | boolean | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. If `true`, will include global queries in addition to team queries when filtering by `team_id`. (If no `team_id` is provided, this parameter is ignored.)

Reviewer 2: @jacobshandling was your question related to this param?  ie.  what should happen if no team_id is sent and `merge_inherited` is sent?

Reviewer 3: @mostlikelee exactly

Author: > (If no `team_id` is provided, this parameter is ignored.)

Means it shouldn't error— since that wasn't obvious, if y'all have thoughts about how to make that behavior clearer in the description, please suggest a change!

Reviewer 3: @rachaelshaw thanks for clarifying – it is pretty obvious actually.

> | include_inherited | boolean | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. If `true`, will include global queries in addition to team queries when filtering by `team_id`. (If no `team_id` is provided, this parameter is ignored.)

Reviewer 3: Seems like we might want to add an example using `include_inherited` below, where one query would have `"team_id": null` and another `"team_id": 1`

Reviewer 3: If that's the expected response shape

> | include_inherited | boolean | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. If `true`, will include global queries in addition to team queries when filtering by `team_id`. (If no `team_id` is provided, this parameter is ignored.)

Author: ```suggestion
| merge_inherited | boolean | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. If `true`, will include global queries in addition to team queries when filtering by `team_id`. (If no `team_id` is provided, this parameter is ignored.)
```
